---
title: "A Day Made of Glass, A Future of Opportunity"
date: "2011-07-20"
categories: 
  - "MediaMixEd"
tags: 
  - "musings"
  - "education"
  - "inspiration"
---

[A Day Made of Glass... Made possible by Corning.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Cf7IL_eZ38) \[youtube=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Cf7IL\_eZ38\]

I came upon this video in a [blog posting](http://www.zurb.com/article/731/a-day-made-of-glass-and-what-that-means-f) that I recently read. I find the video somewhat inspiring for a world to come, even though it is nothing more than a futuristic glass commercial. The blog posting, too, was interesting because, geared to an audience of web designers, it asks, how do you design for a fixed web page layout when the landscape is just too broad to anticipate all devices or, in this case, all shapes and sizes of glass?

I love this question. On the one hand it hits home for me as someone engaged in developing for technology consumption. While on the other hand, it goes to the very heart of the educational question that has been kicking around for decades--how do you design a “fixed” education when the student audience is too broad and comes in all shapes and sizes, so to speak? The short answer, at least in one line of educational theory, is that you don’t design a fixed education. You create opportunities for students to design and build their own learning.

Of course, can no more train our students for the job they will have when they are 40 than we can plan our media productions or our websites for the devices they will be using in 5 years. All we can do, realistically, is prepare them to confront change head on and give them the skills to adapt, to learn for themselves.

But that, too, has become a bit of an old saw at this point, not that I disagree with it.

What I enjoy about the Corning video, about concept cars at auto shows, and about many startups (even though many fail), is that they are _not_ confronting change and adapting in the same way. They are not “reacting” to the change; they are leading the change. They are forcing others to adapt. It’s about the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship.

Yes, we need to prepare our students in some way for the multiple careers they will have in their lifetime. Yes, we need to educate our students for a changing landscape. But, how do we educate them to become innovators, entrepreneurs, and risk takers? How do we equip them with the skills to BECOME the landscapers of the future? Can we teach them to “read” the Corning video and inspire them to begin planning to live and work in a world where that technology is the norm?

Am I tilting at windmills? What’s your take?
