---
title: "What's your Media Montage?"
date: "2011-04-25"
categories: 
  - "MediaMixEd"
tags: 
  - "musings"
---

mon•tage: n. the technique of combining in a single composition pictorial elements from various sources, as parts of different photographs or fragments of printing, either to give the illusion that the elements belonged together originally or to allow each element to retain its separate identity as a means of adding interest or meaning to the composition.

When I was a child in the 1970s, the montage that I could create of the world through mass media was from a limited number of inputs. My mom loved books, so there were always plenty of those around, and we always had subscriptions to the local paper and a variety of magazines. We had a television that received usually 4 VHF channels (ABC, NBC, CBS, and PBS) and between two and five local UHF channels depending on where we were living, and on how much you could play with the antenna and the fine tuning control. Music, except for the musical variety shows on TV, came via the radio and the 45s and LP in my mom’s and siblings’ record collections \[I still can’t quite recall when I bought my first record\]. Movies were something you had to catch while they were in theaters, because it could take years to show up, edited and censored, on network television. Until the late 70s, the only games I played were board games. I can remember though when those red LED handheld sports games were starting to take off in popularity, especially the football version. Video games lived at the pizza joint, the movie theater lobby, or the roller rink, and did not enter our home until my parents bought my brother a Sears rebranded Pong console. Cable television came much later for us.

Today, the inputs for my “media montage” are decidedly more diverse, a buffet compared to the “set meal” of my youth. From the comfort of my sofa, I can see my hdtv on a stand that also holds a DVR cable box, an XBox 360, a Nintendo Wii, a DVD player, and a Roku set-top box. Beside me are my iPad and iPod Touch, and of course the MacBook on which I type this. Except for the TV and the DVD player, all of these devices are multi-media access devices. I can play an almost unlimited number of games; watch movies, videos and television shows; chat with friends; and I can even chat with my friends WHILE we are watching or playing the same program or game on three continents. I can pull up local, national and international news. I can access the current weather forecast in locations as diverse as New York, Walla Walla and Katmandu. If I want to hear a song, I can pull up the YouTube video version of it, enter the title into the Pandora channel on the Roku player, tune to one of many “music-only” channels on the cable box, or stream my personal music collection through the XBox. I can read a book and many magazines on the iPad, iPod Touch or MacBook. My montage is constantly changing and, more importantly, it is much more interactive.

As a child, I could turn the channel, literally, to see what else was on, but eventually I’d either find something or just stop turning the dial and complain, “there’s nothing on.” Then I’d settle on the sofa and passively watch the broadcast until I either grew bored or was called away to do something else. Now such passivity is rare. I’m actively curating what I watch; I’m sharing what I find with others; I’m joining the conversation about it through Twitter or Facebook. For news about the world, I have untold hundreds of reporters at my fingertips to give me all sides of the story. Even when I’m about to do some activity offline or IRL (in real life), I will often consult Internet resources, whether it’s for shopping, gardening, cooking, traveling, or playing the ukulele.

I still buy, borrow and read books and magazines. I still buy music on discs (occasionally), though they are plastic and not vinyl. I still watch network television and go to theaters to watch movies. But those are just a portion of the rich media montage that I assemble for myself today. In my media montage there is always something “on” that I want to watch. Now, I am more selective of both my media and how I spend my time, but I would say that it all comes together quite nicely in the end.
