---
Title: Choosing love in a violent world
Date: 2021-10-14
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

An idea came to me while out walking yesterday that I thought could evolve into a blog entry, or two, or more. I'm not sure yet. But at its core is the idea that, for whatever reason I am wired the way that I am, and despite the violence in the world, I have not reached a point, nor do I ever hope to reach the point, at which I will not choose love over violence.

I know that is a complicated statement and a lot to unpack, so let me start by saying that this is not some kind of pollyanna statement, nor is it meant to be some kind of cliché either. It is also not meant as a statement of my always being a good person or of never have malicious thoughts. At the same time, I also fully recognize that it is a statement of privilege, too. 

We are humans. Biologically, or ecologically, speaking, we are apex predators, the top of the food chain. It is a reality of who we are as animals on this planet. Violence is a part of our nature to survive. We kill to eat, and eat to live. Our societies evolved over the millennia through violence. As a species, not only have we inflicted violence on other creatures, but on other humans as well. And, as biological creatures, sometimes our DNA has errors or anomalies that lead to an increased propensity toward violence. If I am more generous, I could say that for some people it isn't that they have biological "errors" but rather a stronger threat response system. Perhaps they become those of the warrior class voluntarily. Regardless, violence surrounds us and permeates who we are. 

At the societal level, we have evolved to become far less violent than we have ever been before on a global scale, even if atrocities still occur. We owe much of the decline of violence to the stability that is provided by meeting the basic needs of a majority of the global population. Simply lifting people out of abject poverty and privation has contributed significantly toward a more peaceful world, along with education and advances in science and medicine.

Still, there are other forms of violence that reach us. I don't believe that I know anyone whose family has not been touched by some kind of violence. In my family, I've had one former sister-in-law who was murdered by her boyfriend and another sister-in-law who took her own life while suffering from depression. I grew up hearing the stories of the domestic abuse suffered by one of my grandmothers. I know there was relationship violence in the marriage of my parents, and I learned early that I did not want to be nearby when the ticking time-bomb that was my step-father with a six-pack of beers in him unbuckled his belt. For the most part, I escaped many of the potential whippings, but I know my elder siblings had had their own painful experiences of his anger. [I've heard and read of the experiences of other friends and acquaintances, however, to know that the level of abuse in our home was far, far less severe, and would probably register as typical for the era and our social class.] I also know that violence does not need to be physical either, and that emotional violence can be just as painful, extreme, and cause lasting damage. My point is simply that violence is omnipresent in human lives.

Nevertheless, I choose to embrace love or goodness or whatever is found on the opposite scale of violence. While I do think it is a decision that can be made by anyone anywhere, I also understand that it is much, much harder to do when  violence and anguish and hardship and suffering stand always at the ready to destroy every ounce of the love and goodness one may be cultivating. It is easier for me, I know, because I am a middle-aged, white male in a first-world country. No matter what humble existence I was born into, I did not have 200-400 years of oppression to hold me back. I did not have the color of my skin being used against me on a daily basis. The threat of violence does not hover over me, ready to steal my liberty, if not my life, when I see flashing lights in my rearview mirror. Nor was I born in a part of the world still beset by pervasive adversity. Nor was I born as a woman, who must be ever-vigilant against sexual violence even in what should be the safest of environments. So, yes, my privilege makes it easier to choose.

I choose love and goodness because I believe they are the path away from violent extremes. They are the basis of efforts to educate the world, to heal the world, to lift the world out of poverty and privation. They are the keys to fostering healthier interpersonal relationship. 

And, while friendships may be forged in the fires of violence, it is not the sword that makes the fire stronger, nor is it only weapons that the forge produces. 

***
Blog 24/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
