---
Title: The Interview
Date: 2021-10-08
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

Blogging has taken a backseat this week to the interview preparation I've been doing. 

For the first time that I can recall, I was provided with a list of questions that the first-round search committee would be asking, a fact I mentioned in my previous post.

I spent most of this week preparing my answers to those questions. In total, I wrote about 5000 words in response to the eight prompts. Knowing that the interview would last an hour, with a planned reserve of 10 minutes for any questions I might have, that works out to about 6 minutes of response time per question.

The questions covered typical areas for a manager, such as experience with collaboration and building relationships, effective communication, long- and short-term planning, strategic leadership, as well as my contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion.

Then, there was my logistical planning for the interview itself. I structured my responses in a document, using paragraph styles in order to build an interactive table of contents that would make it easier to jump to each question regardless of the order in which they were presented. I positioned the document in the center of my field of view, below the web cam at the top the screen. I increased the zoom percentage of the document to about 160% and chose a font that is designed for on-screen reading (Calibri). 

Ahead of time, I launched my Zoom software and updated it as well. After the update, I restarted it and cursed briefly when the new update caused the initial video color temperature to be off, way off. It looked like I was in a fire tower in the middle of a blaze at the end of the day. I checked the video settings to no avail, but simply turning the video off and on cleared things up. [Sometimes it is sad how much this stereotypical action actually solves the problem.] I next confirmed that audio was routing correctly through my Airpods. 

It wasn't, not at first. I only had sound in one ear and no mic. So, I shutdown Zoom again, and checked to ensure the audio settings were working correctly on my computer. Then, I relaunched Zoom. The color temperature issue happened again, but I toggled the fix, then rechecked the audio. When all was well, I preset my Zoom conferencing window so that it would be adjacent to the document, but smaller so that I had awareness of the committee members, but was not visually distracted by them. With everything set, I closed out of my Zoom connection.

Next, with my mouse finger on the scroll wheel, I opened up the stopwatch on my iPhone and read through my responses...once again. I was able to read through all of the responses in less than six minutes each, a good sign. The longest took about four and a half minutes. However, I know from years of presentation work that practice timing rarely aligns with real-world time. One tip: never simply read the words in your head or just on your lips. You must read the words aloud. For presentations that will be in person, you need to be standing, or in whatever your natural presentation state will be, as well. It changes your timings. I also know that just reading aloud is not enough to provide an accurate time. Your emotional state during the presentation, or in this case, my interview, is going to affect the timing as well. You think it might make you speed things up, but in reality you end up adding some pauses or some *um's* or *uh's* along the way. For me, I wanted my answers to feel natural and not like I was simply reading, so I added hand motions or thoughtful pauses, along with some genuine, but careful, ad lib, too. Reading through my responses permitted me the additional opportunity to make further edits to my answers. When I finished, I returned the cursor to the top of the document.

Final preparations included a trip to the restroom and to the kitchen for a tumbler of water. Back in front of the screen, I turned on Do Not Disturb mode and I put my phone into Airplane mode.

Two minutes before the interview, I clicked on the Zoom link. Once again, I was basking in a golden glow, but thankfully I knew that I was going to be in the Zoom waiting room, so I connected without video initially. As soon as I was out of the lobby, the video of the host started up. I quickly toggled video on and set the screen mode to gallery to place everyone in Brady Bunch boxes. I then quickly clicked over to my document so that my mouse and keyboard were focused on the right application.

The document layout helped tremendously in keeping my eyeline as close as possible to the camera position. Using the scroll wheel allowed me to move my text up, much like a teleprompter without losing the eyeline. The table of contents panel worked beautifully in helping to navigate quickly to the next question.

Overall, I think the interview went well. The introductory question ended up being phrased differently, which threw me off just slightly out of the gate, but I recovered. The table of content navigation largely went well, but for one of the final questions, I simply could not find my notes and no amount of jumping or scrolling seemed to be help. I was convinced that somehow I must have accidentally deleted the entire thing. I had probably 30 seconds of hesitant response as I scoured through the document, but wanting not to look like I was doing so. This is where the pre-reading practice really helped out. Once I gave up on finding my notes, I had to go from memory, which I did and brought things back on track. 

What I lost in the process, however, was time. I finished my responses with only two minutes left on the schedule. Then, a minute was used up by the committee talking about the shortage of time before allowing one question and a brief reply. *C'est la vie*. The Q&A and the interview finished just two and a half minutes over time. I said my thank you's to the committee, was moved back to the lobby, and disconnected from Zoom.

All in all, though, I thought it went very well. The questions were good and allowed me, as a candidate, to answer in a thoughtful way, which I think is what the committee was hoping for. As an unemployed individual, the questions were also helpful as an opportunity to be self-reflective. I may not love it, but it is a net good.

Today, I sent my emails to the search firm and the committee. Now, I wait to learn if I make it to the second round.

***
Blog 20/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
