---
Title: 'Cooking: meditation and creation'
Date: 2021-10-25
Categories: ["Personal Blog","100 Days to Offload"]
Tags: ["100DaysToOffload"]
---

Cooking is one of my escapes. It is one of my meditations. It is one of my favorite creative endeavors. And, it is one of the things I can do that I know I can share with others. That is, I don't really share the cooking process, but I like to be able to share what I produce with others. 

I enjoy that it both has rules and at the same time has no rules. Recipes connect you to someone else's experience, but they do not require or expect that you will have the exact same experience. They are like sketches to treasure maps, showing you the way, but also showing you where X is on the map in case you'd like to take a different path. The path to the treasure is almost certainly going to be an adventure, even more so if you decided to take your own detours. You may fail or you may succeed, but the experience is uniquely yours regardless. Anyone who cooks, or enjoys cooking, can tell you that there is as much if not more pleasure to be derived from the process as there is from the product. I can spend hours preparing a meal that is consumed in 10-15 minutes, but I would not trade those hours during which nothing else needed to matter.

That's what I mean when I say that cooking is a meditation and an escape for me. I often find that during times of stress, especially when there is something that I need to do, I will often seek solace not in food, but in making or preparing food. When I decide to cook, it demands my attention. When chopping vegetables, the knife requires that I be present lest I invountarily decide to contribute even more of myself to the meal. When baking bread, I need to think carefully about measuring the ingredients. There are exceptions, of course, but some recipes do require more precision than others. My mind can take side journeys, but usually only while I am waiting for something to come to a boil or during a long, slow simmer. But that's often when the meditations begin. As I peer into the pot or the mixing bowl, the aromas are carried upward. I think about how the fragrances are coming together. Or maybe I'm momentarily transported back to a childhood memory. Or maybe I think about the alchemy that will take place in the oven when the butter, brown sugar, vanilla, and chocolate chips combine. Or maybe I watch in amazement as the dough goes from powder to crumble to sticky mass to smooth, shiny ball of dough. Or how sugar in a pan over a flame transmogrifies from fine white granules to transparent liquid to golden syrup and then to a rich amber elixir. No wonder the witches of fairytales are almost always involved in cooking! There is certainly magic there in those brews!

Cooking is an act of creation as well. Mixing things together to create something entirely new, or that didn't exist in the same form just a short time prior. We often talk about how we would visit my grandmother's home when we were younger. You could open the refrigerator or pantry, find them sparsely stocked, and think to yourself, "I hope she's eating enough." But then find yourself eating a multi-course meal an hour later. We would call these the "magic meals." I'm glad to know that, while I don't think of it as genetic, I inherited the ability to put together a meal from the most meager of ingredients. I sometimes surprise myself in this regard. Of course, sometimes you may need to call for takeout when things don't quite go together the way you may have imagined they would. But, again, that's part of the adventure.

There are times I've considered whether or not to pursue culinary training. I think I would enjoy the learning, but I'm just not certain that I would enjoy cooking as much if it were my full-time job, especially if I were working for someone else. I think I know intuitively that making the leap from apprentice to chef takes years. I know that's one reason why I never want to work in a fast food restaurant either. I would simply be bored making the same food all the time. Even at home, I need to constantly add new items to the menu. 

While there are standby and go-to meals, the reason I'm the primary cook is simply that my palate demands it. I'm really happy that a number of my menu items have evolved over time to be reliably predictable, but I always need something new to try. In that regard, at least, my cooking is at least as consistent as the rest of my life. Some things need to be reliably predictable, and other need to constantly provide something new.

***
Blog 25/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
