---
Title: On ham and unwanted email
Date: 2021-09-28
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

I think that next on my list of things to clean and clear out are my numerous "ham" email subscriptions. If I do not check my two email accounts for two days, I find myself quickly reviewing and purging about 200 emails. None of those emails are work-related, as the accounts are both personal. 

When I am purge processing, I'm able to delete easily 95% of the messages very quickly just from the headers that appear in the list. Another 3% probably fall into the category of useful information, such as bill notifications and payment processing, or other organizations with whom I conduct personal business. 1% fall into the category of interesting distractions, such as Twitter, Digg, Quora, or other digest emails. Depending on my time and mood, these will either get immediately trashed or kept for a quick review after the initial purge. And the final 1% are the items that I think may have some educational or informational value should I choose to hold on to them. Though, in reality, I likely will never go back. 

But, to be honest, most of those numbers are just raw estimates. I've thought of using my own email as a data set for developing and training my own AI assistant to help with the processing, but haven't progressed far enough into that space to move it forward yet.

Over the years I've tried a number of different strategies for organization, but nothing has really stuck. Since one of my accounts is a Gmail account, I've pretty much left it up to Google to handle the sorting. The problem I run into there is that Google seems to really not want to delete my email. It is one thing for me to choose to tag/file a message and archive it to remove it from my Inbox, but if I delete it from my Inbox, I really want that message to go away. Instead, there are messages in that special All Mail folder that will not go away unless I delete them from there.

But with a little fall cleaning, maybe I can whittle down both that black hole of 50K+ messages, as well as prevent a few more from coming in at all.

Wish me luck. I'd prefer to avoid filing full email bankruptcy again.


***
Blog 16/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
