---
Title: On the home front
Date: 2021-09-15
Categories: ["Personal Blog","100 Days to Offload"]
Tags: ["100DaysToOffload"]
---

It is hard to be bored when there is so much that needs doing. Here are just a few of the issues I need to address on the home front:

* Arrange for a second estimate to address water damage from a poorly finished roof replacement
* Get the roofer out to rearrange the attic insulation her team somehow kicked up in the process of putting on the roof
* Arrange for a home energy audit
* Arrange for an inspection of the one exterior post that is holding up part of the second floor
* Arrange for a car inspection
* Make plans to fill wall cracks that have emerged since the roof was replaced
* Strategically unpack the boxes from our two recent moves to identify what things can permanently go away this time
* Review the shed for a possible reorganization project

Now, except for the last four, these require the involvement of other people. Living in a more rural area, it is already a bit of a challenge to get contractors since the supply is low. The pandemic and the real estate issues nationwide, though, are exacerbating things even further. 

I called one company to see about the energy audit and the message on the answering machine informed me that they were booking 4 months out. While pursuing the water damage estimate, I had one contractor come out, look things over, tell me he'd send an estimate, and then promptly ghosted me.

The roof experience is probably worth a post of its own. Needless to say, it was the second time that I tried to support a local, small independent contractor, only to have it blow up in my face. I had a roof put on a house in another state last fall that was almost textbook professional, by comparison, and was about $12,000 cheaper!

Nope, not bored, but some days simply overwhelmed.

***
Blog 9/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
