---
Title: A Slanted Survey
Date: 2021-10-12
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

For many years, I have been affiliated with a few survey sites where, in return for my time to complete surveys, I receive some kind of benefit, usually some trivial amount of money or points that can later be redeemed for gift cards and the like. I'm sure there are better ways that I can spend 15 minutes of my time, but there are worse ways, too. And, it does often provide me with a bit of pleasure to provide my opinions from time to time.

One of the survey sites will remind me by email when my account is at risk of closure due to inactivity, which usually prompts me to login and complete a survey or two, which I did today.

What surprised me, however, was that one of today's surveys was so horribly slanted for the client that it caught me by surprise. I'm very aware of how often ["push polling"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Push_poll) is used around political issues, but I just was not expecting this particular survey to be so clearly designed for certain specific outcomes. I wish I had done some screen captures so I could get the text of some of the questions specifically, but I was quite far into the survey before my hackles were particular raised.

The survey was clearly being conducted on behalf of internet service providers, either directly or through a lobbying group or association. There were a number of questions about my perceived attitudes towards various providers. Were they innovative? Do I have a positive opinion of this company or that company? How satisfied am I with price, performance, security, reliability? Things like that.

One question I should probably explain my response a bit. On the issue of, "Do I think that [*company xyz*] could be trusted with my information" my answer is almost always "no." I've been in IT for too long to know that nothing is ever truly secure. Do I think there are best efforts? Certainly. But, I also know that it was not so very long ago that several telecoms and internet companies were [discovered](https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2013/06/timeline-nsa-domestic-surveillance-bush-obama/) to be actively sharing customer information with the government or at least enabling the NSA to tap major communication systems.

Anyway, all of these questions were really just softening me, the survey-taker, up for what seems clearly to have been the meat of the survey. Specifically, what were my feelings about net neutrality and municipal broadband? But here's where the questions were slanted in such a way that I could clearly see the survey results coming out of a paid politician's mouth in the months ahead.

1. **Do I think that internet users who use more should be charged more for their consumption?** This is a softball lead in question. Whenever anyone thinks that someone else is getting more than they are for the same price, even for "free," it brings out certain pettiness. In the case of the internet, though, especially if we were to think of broadband as a *utility* service, maybe that does make sense. You pay more for water or electricity if you consume more, after all, don't you? But I know from experience that there is also a minimum amount that I pay regardless. Most of the time, in my house we barely exceed the minimum in our water consumption. What is not established in the survey, though, is anything resembling numbers upon which to base the costs. How much should we expect as "normal" as the world slides towards online everything? How much is "excessive" when movies, music, connected devices, education, and work are expected to transpire over our broadband connection? Cable companies have been sending analog and digital television signals over copper wires for decades without discussing "consumption charges," so how is monetizing for individual bits new, other than as a "because we can" opportunity?

1. **Do I think that streaming services should pay broadband companies more for all the content they stream to customers?** This is the follow-up question, but note how it is framed as asking businesses to pay more. It's the same argument, really, though. What broadband companies want, however, is to be paid twice for the same zero or one. They want the streaming companies to pay to send the bit, and the consumers to pay to receive the same bit. Moreover, we know they want streaming companies to pay a higher rate for the privilege of sending the bits. What is also being ignored in this question is the very real situation of broadband companies becoming owners of the content as well, in which case they then are paid at least **three times** for the bits: for the sending and receiving of the bits, and for the licensing rights to stream the bits. There's probably a fourth payment in there also for the privilege of being included in the broadband company's streaming device menu, you can be sure. Of course, these costs all just get passed along to the consumer in one form or another regardless.

1. **Do I think that broadband internet is a right?** This one got to me as well. Do I think of it as some inalienable right? Maybe not, exactly. But, as the pandemic has rightly demonstrated, the internet in 2021 is not just about shopping, streaming, and watching TikTok. It has become **absolutely critical** to our domestic infrastructure to support education, government, and industry. We learned just how unequal opportunity is distributed in this country, and the telecommunications and internet providers are 100% complicit in this. We know that they have collected mandatory fees from customers for decades that were meant to build out infrastructure in rural parts of the country and they have done as little as possible, often pocketing the mandatory fees to add to their own bottom line instead of helping consumers. This question, then, was a lead-in to the next many questions concerning municipal broadband.

1. **Do I think that municipalities should use federal infrastructure funds to build out municipal broadband solutions?** This question was presented across a number of questions, actually. They ranged from questions asking me to rank my top three uses for infrastructure funding. As much as I think municipal broadband is important, I can't quite put it ahead of things like roads, bridges, education, and clean water, and the survey creators know that. *Who do I trust to handle my security more?* *Who will invest in innovation?* *Who find the money for upgrades*? There were a whole series of these questions that were almost always structured as an either/or, rather than on a Likert scale. The problem, of course, is that these issues are not black or white. There were questions like, *Knowing that some municipal broadband efforts have failed, would you still support your taxes going to invest in municipal broadband?* None of the question primed the survey-taker to have a negative image of broadband companies, even though these corporations sometimes fail, even though some cable companies functions as de facto monopolies, even though some of these corporations receive taxpayer dollars in the form of subsidies or other tax carve outs.

Perhaps the worst of the questions, however, were a pair that seem primed for political sloganeering. Two parallel questions asked for terms that most favorably and least favorably describe internet service funded by taxpayers and included: *government-owned broadband, government-funded broadband, municipal broadband, taxpayer-funded broadband*, and a few more variations. The net result is clearly to determine the language that will be fed to politicians during the upcoming mid-term election cycle.

After numerous follow-up questions along the lines of *knowing this...would you still support municipal broadband efforts?* For each of those prompts, I  continued to reply honestly on the scale with "Yes, I would strongly support municipal broadband." The truth is simply that there are parts of the country, including in my state, where the greedy existing national broadband internet providers have grossly failed to invest in infrastructure that meets the demands that this country requires to provide a minimum level of service to those who need it the most, often while illegally misappropriating money from the government or existing customers that is specifically earmarked for that purpose. So, yes, in those areas especially, I most definitely support efforts by local government to improve the lives of its citizens when businesses simply don't care to do so.

This particular survey left a particularly bad taste in my mouth, but at least I did what I could to recognize the slant and respond as best as I could with the options provided.

***
Blog 23/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
