---
Title: In the Dunes
Date: 2021-10-26
Categories: ["Personal Blog","100 Days to Offload"]
Tags: ["100DaysToOffload"]
---

Over the weekend, like millions of people around the world, I carved out some time to watch Denis Villeneuve's new telling of [*Dune*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1160419/), based on the novel by Frank Herbert. Quite simply, I enjoyed the experience. The film, like most in Villeneuve's oevre is nearly the opposite of a typical Hollywood blockbuster. Much like *Blade Runner 2049* and *Arrival*, it is quiet and stark, which seems surprising for a film of this era. Don't get me wrong, there are battle scenes and other action set pieces, but they are not the sensory overload that seems to be so commonplace in a world of Marvel and DC action films. I also recently saw the latest James Bond film, *No Time to Die*, and even it's action scenes seemed louder and more frenetic, until the final third of the film.

*Dune* provides me with what I asked for earlier in the blog, time to [linger](https://hutscripts.neocities.org/#2021-09-12a-longing-to-linger-part-1). There is so much to enjoy and to simply take in. The cinematography by Greig Fraser is beautiful. The costumes by Jacqueline West are both sumptuous and restrained, relatively speaking. They feel contemporary and functional where needed, and over-the-top where not (the imperial bubble heads are clearly less about function than form). The sets and/or locations are refined, simple, and uncluttered. Not since Han Solo failed to jump to hyperspace in the Millennium Falcon have I felt the future tech so thoroughly mechanical and believable. And, more importantly, we, the audience, are given time to take it all in without sacrificing the pacing of the story (though I was caught by surprise when I realized this is merely part 1 of the film adaptation). 

For nostalgic reasons, I thought I might revisit the 1984 David Lynch version of [*Dune*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0087182/) as well. After 20 minutes, though, I have to say I think I'm done with it. It is so painful to watch by comparison, and I can't blame it on 1984-era filmmaking. George Lucas' *Star Wars* released in 1977 was already doing science fiction films better. What bothered me in just 20 minutes of watching? The exposition, the bad acting, the feeling of being on a soundstage, the actors thinking they are doing a stage play, and the spacing guild muppets with genitalia for faces who poop out planetary destinations. What the actual...?! I'm glad that *Twin Peaks* allowed Kyle MacLachlan to find a role that suited him. I cannot believe that both he and Timothée Chalamet were the same age when they each played the role of Paul Atreides. Chalamet's Paul feels much more genuine and less smug, which I did not expect. I realize that Lynch's film is a product of its time and it, too, has some great sets and costumes. They just feel more like sets and costumes. Weirdly, perhaps, one of the things I like about the 1984 version is Kenneth McMillan's Baron Vladimir Harkonnen. I mean, it is an over-the-top performance, but he seems to be one of the few people who understands they are making a movie. His Baron is disgustingly, insanely evil while Stellan Skarsgård's 2021 superb turn as Baron is menacingly evil. Both performances conjure up different path's to their character's respective political ascensions. Neither character is one with whom you want to find yourself alone in a room.
 
I also appreciate that there is a greater cultural awareness playing out in the 2021 film version. Dialogue coaches obviously paid more attention to word origins to give more authentic pronunciations of words like "Harkonnen", "Padishah", and "Shai-Hulud." And, while some characters are gender-swapped, there is more realism in the diversity of casting. Dr. Yueh is more appropriately Asian, the Fremen are a range of ethnicities, and the cast overall is less lily-white than the 1984 film. The new cast, not just Timothée Chalamet, turn in very solid performances (though Jason Momoa has to walk that very thin line between being someone other than Jason Momoa). Only Dave Bautista as Beast Rabban Harkonnen seems to be chewing up the scenery. I can only speculate that he sees his Rabban as the product of too much inbreeding.

One of the things that kept my nostalgia for the 1984 film alive for as long as it has is the [soundtrack by TOTO](https://open.spotify.com/album/5C6579KEvJj9AWaZtjSflC?si=G4Ak1EqbSiucXXu8GAk9uQ). I owned (and still have) a cassette tape of the soundtrack and I played it frequently. I was very into electronic music in 1984 and the *Dune* soundtrack just slotted in quite nicely among my tapes of [Vangelis](https://open.spotify.com/album/79IlwWTziJbkzjN8qio1KC?si=5hmCeEviQhywFNtLAhWPQg) and [Jean-Michel Jarre](https://open.spotify.com/album/3e7TxckusgnC1AYnAqbl2z?si=3DD3HwVVRH2MR8fLWNa5Ng). I doubt that I will be listening to the [2021 soundtrack](https://open.spotify.com/album/56k8ay5oE5apR61WIeE4wQ?si=UZ_tz3d6T7SqKE6uOKQl1g) in 35 years, but I do want to acknowledge that Hans Zimmer's work fits the movie very well.

Now, I only wish the [2021 movie poster](https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/original/2sxSn0jjjQoIIZfZjC6j5GZkMVR.jpg) didn't look so much like a poster for [Rogue One](https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/original/63d7jKclLJWzZJaYZorbGVsDaqa.jpg). Frankly, the whole pyramid of people layout is getting really tiresome. 

***
Blog 26/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)

