---
Title: Let the chapter begin
Date: 2021-09-07
Categories: ["Personal Blog","100 Days to Offload"]
Tags: ["100DaysToOffload"]
---

As of Saturday, I am officially and voluntarily unemployed, having left my previous employer after 18 months and 1 day. I made the decision to leave six months prior but wanted to complete the major project that I was leading first. That project went live in mid-August, and I officially gave notice two weeks prior to that.

It is weird to be unemployed, the first time since 1996, but it is also a little exciting, too. Perhaps I am over-confident in my ability to be rehired again, but I'm looking forward to this "break," not for the relaxation or sense of early retirement, but because, in addition to having time to work on house projects that have been lingering for months, I'll have more time to focus on myself a little bit. I want some dedicated time to learn new skills and to think about how I want to spend the next decade or so of my life.

In that vein, I'm starting with this blog, which I hope will be a daily record of scripts from my virtual hut, a reference to the Tsurezuregusa, or Essays in Idleness, by the Japanese monk Yoshida Kenkō in the 14th Century.

***

## A list of things I hope to try

* studying python
* studying machine learning
* setting up multiple Raspberry Pis
* setting up a blog
* keeping a blog as part of the 100 blog entry challenge
* studying React

In addition during this time I hope to revise my CV into a more business-focused resumé, and work with a career coach to help me get a better sense of what to do next with my life.

***

Blog 1/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)