---
Title: 30 Minutes of Discipline
Date: 2021-09-21
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

One of the problems that I frequently run into when deciding to blog is that, after a few entries, my attention either wanders away from the blog or I feel like I don't have anything to write about. More often it is the case of the latter rather than the former, but one leads to the other. A good writer, so they say, is one who is more disciplined about their approach, setting aside a set amount of time each day and committing to it. As an instructor, this was often the advice I gave to my students as well, because it is not limited to writing. To get better at any thing requires the discipline to constantly practice and improve. Of course, with many skills to be developed, it usually is not enough to simply to practice and, in fact, the companion to practice is guidance, whether from a teacher, an honest friend, or really just anyone other than oneself.

I'm not sure that point about an outside reviewer is necessarily true with blogs, especially if they serve primarily as one's non-private diary. If the purpose is simply to "off load" ideas, holding oneself to a set time is still important nonetheless.

Today, I'm a few days out from my last post so I am giving myself this 30 minutes to simply just type what comes to mind. The timer is already ticking down.

What I was thinking about even before starting was how often I wish I could simply dictate these ideas to myself at night with my head on the pillow. I know I'm not alone when it comes to having one's brain go into overtime right around the time when your body thinks it is time to rest. I'm sure it is the product of the brain having had to push everything else aside to help me get through the day and then deciding, "Oh, hello there. I see that you are finally free. Could we talk for a few minutes, or maybe a few hours if that's okay? There is so much I've been saving up to share with you." Meanwhile, the other part of you is thinking, "No, please, I just want to rest. Didn't we already have a busy day, brain?"

Sometimes, the brain's replies are helpful, like "That's cool. But I just thought it would be good to remind you about that thing you asked me not to forget for tomorrow. It might not be recorded on your phone yet, so I really just wanted to, you know, do my part to help out, but yeah that's fine. That's all for now." 

And then, of course, at other times the brain acts like it is tripping on chemicals someone must have smuggled in through one of your [nine gates](https://vaniquotes.org/wiki/The_body_consists_of_nine_gates_-_two_eyes,_two_nostrils,_two_ears,_one_mouth,_the_anus_and_the_genitals). Your brain screams, "I know you're trying to sleep, but you just have to hear this amazing thing I came up with. Tomorrow you should go out and get some baling wire, light bulbs, a saxophone, a couple of tangerines, and a ferret. I swear, this will end poverty within five years!" as you struggle to push back, "No, it won't, and I don't have time for this. Just go to sleep. We're clearly oxygen deprived and need some rest."

Most nights, the brain retreats, defeated, and simply clocks in for its shift on the autonomic nervous system factory floor. There are a few nights, however, where it is like trying to get a toddler to sleep and it is a battle of wills so you settle for a [Pyrrhic victory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyrrhic_victory) when it comes.

I know there are people who keep a notebook by the bed to help deal with the overactive brain, to help get those ideas out of the head and onto paper. Again, it reminds me of taking down a toddler's Christmas wish list so they will just stop talking about it. I must confess that it took me probably 50 years to finally learn. I do keep a pen and tablet on or in the bedside table now. I don't use it as frequently as I might, but it has come in handy as a way of simply just jot down a few to-do items for the coming day(s) lest I forget. I've been less reluctant to use it for other journaling or note taking purposes, mostly because I prefer not to turn the lights back on once I've turned them off.

Alright, well, that just about wraps up my first 30 minute timed session. I know it is a ramble, but that's beside the point. Training the writing muscle is the goal. Right?

Now to review this mess and decide what to hotlink.

***
Blog 11/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)

