---
Title: The Curriculum Vitae to Resumé Conversion
Date: 2021-10-11
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

This may prove to be a short entry, but we'll see. While I am still expecting that I may remain in higher education, I'm not limiting myself to that and am regularly reviewing positions that are open in my surrounding towns at companies, non-profits, and B-corporations. To that end, one of my biggest challenges is to reframe my higher education experience in a way that will be meaningful to an HR person. Specifically, I need to rewrite my 8-10 page curriculum vitae, which has been the path forward for every position I've held in the past 20 years, as a 1-2 page resumé that reframes and distills my experience and achievements. On the one or two occasions I done this in the past, I've found it to be a daunting experience.

At the outset I also understand that an ideal resumé is even more tailored to a given position than a CV often will be. My first goal, however, is simply to see how I might employ a scalpel and a jeweler's loupe to the former in order to bring out the diamond within. To date, most of this customization has gone into my cover letter, with minor edits to the rest of the CV. The conversion, not unlike the preparation for last week's interview, is going to require some challenging introspection. And, though I mentioned a scalpel, I may need the equivalent of a bone saw instead.

According to one [website](https://ocs.yale.edu/channels/cv-to-resume-conversion/), resumés:
* highlight relevant experiences
* are results-oriented, providing quantitative, measurable details
* use action verbs to highlight skills, experiences, and achievements
* strategically highlight activities if they demonstrate key transferable skills valued by the employer

With the news today that I am no longer moving forward to the next round with the school I interviewed with last week, I suppose it becomes even more of an imperative for me to knuckle-down on this activity and see where I land.

***
Blog 22/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)
