---
Title: When the subject under review is me
Date: 2021-10-04
Categories: 
  - "100 Days to Offload"
Tags: 
  - "100DaysToOffload"
---

When we were students, one of the things we often wished we had were the questions to an upcoming exam, thinking that we would then know exactly what to study or, more importantly, believing that we would simply prepare sufficiently to have the correct answers ahead of time. But, as many teachers know, having the questions is no guarantee of being able to produce the correct answers on an exam. There can be a myriad reasons for this. If we don't fully understand the subject material, simply having the questions does not ensure that our brain will link to the correct answer under exam duress. We should have all learned that lesson with the simple spelling tests that we grew up with. 

Each week we were provided with the list of words and we simply needed to correctly spell them when the words were read aloud. The lists were rarely even that long. Still, we would make mistakes. In some cases, those spelling mistakes follow us for the rest of our lives, two neurons so enraptured with one another that they fail to realize how wrong their pairing is, while the surrounding neurons blast extra jolts of electricity to separate the bonds long enough for the correct spelling to appear on our paper or screen. 

With essay questions it is even more of a challenge. Having the question prompts put you in the position of having to stress out over your answer for even longer, like submitting yourself to the exam twice. Sure, you can make notes, perhaps an outline to organize your thoughts and the direction you plan to take, but still you must use that map to actually sail your course through the testing waters and avoid the hazards along the way, hoping that you arrive at your destination safely.

That's kinds of how I feel this week. I have an interview coming up for a fairly important job. The interview is the exam, and the subject matter is me, something you'd think I know well. The company has even provided the questions I'll be asked so that the time spent during the interview can be as efficient as possible. And yet, I'm still procrastinating. I'm actually moving on to the prep work after I complete the blog entry, but I couldn't bring myself to do the work this weekend.

As much as we all know our own story, for me I still have a hard time telling it under the pressure of an interview. We are taught that humility is a good thing, an interview flip that--we are expected to sing our own praises. But it is important that we know where the line is between boasting about our accomplishments and simply describing them honestly. I appreciate having the questions ahead of time, but there is a part of me that absolutely hates it as well. Okay, "hate" is too strong a word. There is something different about preparing for the unknown versus preparing for the known.

I am discomforted by introspection. It's akin to the feeling we have when we hear a recording of our voice. I know that introspection and reflection are positive things that help us grow, but introspection also forces us to confront something that we fear professionally all the time. It is a manifestation of the impostor syndrome and the question, "Am I worthy?" As a manager, it challenges me also because I often feel that my success is usually due to the work of my team, so it is always difficult for me to see and to articulate my role in the successes I've been a part of.

Nevertheless, I will proceed. I will grab the mirror to hold before me, and dust off the cobwebs in my mind to revisit past work in order to tell the story of me, to sell the story of me, to this next highest bidder. In the end, I know there will still be a mental skirmish as two sides of my psyche fight to move the line of "Will I be enough?" in one direction or another. I can tell myself now that regardless of the outcome, "I am enough" but there will always be a part that is wounded or bruised by the encounter should I not move forward in the search. And I will assuage those parts with reminders that **I am more than enough**...for someone or someplace else.

***
Blog 19/100 [#100DaysToOffLoad](https://100daystooffload.com)

